---
layout: post
title: The Art of Orange Pill
subtitle: How to articulate Bitcoin's value proposition
thumbnail-img: https://images7.alphacoders.com/697/thumb-1920-697220.jpg
share-img: https://paintingandframe.com/art-imgs/frans_hals/saint_john_the_evangelist-63040.jpg
cover-img: https://images7.alphacoders.com/697/thumb-1920-697220.jpg
tags: [how-to]
comments: true
---

# The Art of the Orange Pill

#### *Colin Gifford | CA*

![bitcoin_large](https://github.com/dragon-foobar/dragon-foobar.github.io/assets/129810153/d8729e8e-12d5-4f96-a90f-bba1c267a426)


***Orange Pill:** To start seeing the world through the lens of bitcoin*

I first encountered bitcoin approximately two years ago. Prior to
that, my understanding of economics was limited to introductory
courses I had taken at university. Much like my fellow peers, I found
myself lost in the complexity of the mathematical models, leading me
to accept the notion that if the math added up, the logic must
naturally follow. However, my perspective underwent a significant
shift towards the end of 2020 when a friend introduced me to bitcoin
by recommending Lex Friedman\'s podcast with Safedean Amous and, like
so many others before me, I fell deep down the rabbit hole.

Since that moment, I have immersed myself in countless hours of
content, including news articles, books, and podcasts, delving into
every facet of bitcoin, from its digital security and mining to wealth
management tools and Austrian monetary theory. The challenge, however,
lies in distilling this wealth of information into a format that
resonates with individuals who, much like myself in 2020, are not yet
deeply engrossed in the subject matter. If you\'ve ever encountered a
similar struggle of summarizing and organizing complex thoughts, then
this is for you.

This paper presents a clear and strategic approach to reaching
individuals who are less informed about bitcoin, often referred to as
"Normies." This approach is encapsulated in what we call the
"Orange Pill" methodology.

For the purposes of this paper, a "Normie" is defined as someone who
exhibits the following characteristics:

- They are unfamiliar with the concept of 'fiat money' and lack an
  understanding of how government-issued currency is created, beyond the
  term 'money printing.'
- Their knowledge of monetary history is limited, if existent at all.
- While they may have heard of bitcoin, their knowledge typically doesn't extend beyond recognizing it as digital currency.
- They have encountered common criticisms, such as concerns about money laundering and the environmental impact of mining.

We will also assume that you, the reader, possess the following
characteristics:

- You have recently become interested in bitcoin, likely within the
  past few years.
- You have extensively consumed a wide range of content
  related to bitcoin and Austrian economics, including books and
  podcasts.
- You have dabbled in the art of 'orange pilling,' but you may find
  it challenging to effectively convey your point when discussing
  bitcoin with others, often resorting to rambling and non-sequential
  arguments rather than delivering precise and compelling explanations.

From these considerations, we arrive at a practical blueprint. Here is
my guidance for a young enthusiast seeking to promote the
understanding of the inevitable. I recommend following these steps:

### Diagnose the Problem:
- Learn what inflation actually is and where it comes from whilst
outlining why central banks are illequipped to dealing with the issue.

### Identify the Properties of the Solution**:
- Clearly define why these issues are solved by fixing the money.
Noting the charactistics of sounds money that would create financial
equality.

### Link these Properties to bitcoin:
- Form a strong connection between the identified properties and how
bitcoin embodies them. Use concrete examples and relatable
explanations to illustrate how bitcoin addresses the problems you've
diagnosed.

## Diagnose the problem

In my perspective, initiating an "orange pill" moment hinges on
people developing a profound aversion to inflation. They should gain
an understanding of its origins, who it favours, who it hinders, and
who it empowers. If ordinary individuals took the time to contemplate
the implications of inflation, it might well lead to widespread
unrest. Are we to believe that the money we've earned through our
hard work or by offering goods and services to others is gradually
losing its value while sitting in our bank accounts, all because
unelected officials can create more of it at their discretion? How can
such a system be considered equitable?

Theoretically, the initial step in administering the orange pill
appears straightforward, but in practice, it's undeniably
challenging. The key is to bring people into alignment regarding the concept of inflation. Anyone who earns an income, pays taxes, or
possesses any form of financial independence is currently experiencing
the pinch of rising prices. We are all too familiar with the sensation
of squinting at price tags in the grocery store or at the fuel pump.
As bitcoin proponents, we comprehend that characterizing the past two
years as simply 'prices going up\' is an incomplete and factually
inaccurate perspective. Those of us in the bitcoin community recognise
that it's the value of our currency that is deliberately diminishing,
a situation outrageously engineered to unfold.

### We Should Despise Inflation:

My initial question to people usually takes the form of, "Don't you
detest inflation? Doesn't it infuriate you to pay over $8 for a
carton of eggs or $2 per litre for fuel? Doesn't this bother you?"
Unless they happen to be Larry Fink, I would assume their answer is
no. However, if people remain indifferent or consider it an inevitable
facet of life, I follow up with the following argument, often framed
in terms of morality. The depth to which you delve into this topic can
vary, but the central theme should revolve around addressing the
question of who is most adversely affected during inflationary
periods. The unequivocal answer is that lower and working-class
individuals bear the brunt of it. In the words of the late George
Carlin, "It's a big club, and you ain't in it." We're not merely
referring to recent years, but rather to every inflationary bubble
dating back to the 1920s, 1940s, 1970s, 2000s, and beyond. In each
instance, the wealth gap between the top 1% and the bottom 90% has
expanded.

> The increase in wealth from the top 1%. Notice how the increase is
always after a recession

Those fortunate enough to have purchased homes with regular incomes
from the 1970s to even the mid-2000s are now sitting on what seems
like multi-generational wealth, which is at the detriment of the next
generation. This is where the concepts of hard and soft assets become
relevant.

In simple terms, capital tends to flow towards assets that are the
most challenging to create, such as houses, fine art, and jewellery.
The price of an asset above its utility value is what's called the
monetary premium as people are looking at it as a store of value. Real
estate has been an ever growing source of wealth over the past 50
years meaning that it's monetary value has grown substantially over that time. To help your friends grasp
this concept, you might ask them why a low-cost watch loses value
while a Rolex appreciates over time.

The undeniable truth is that inflation primarily benefits individuals
who possess hard assets like real estate, jewelry, and stocks, often
at the expense of those who do not. The wealth gap widens due to a
self-reinforcing inflation cycle: If you already own hard assets,
their value increases and you become even wealthier; if you don't,
you find yourself further priced out of the market as inflation raises
asset prices through credit bubbles. People need to recognise this
phenomenon.

What makes inflation particularly insidious is that it doesn't affect
everyone uniformly or randomly. The crucial point to emphasize is that
inflation disproportionately advantages individuals with existing
wealth while placing an added burden on those with lower incomes. This
perpetuates the wealth gap.

> Years it takes to save for a house, arrow points to when President
Nixon closed the gold exchange window in 1971

### Cause and Effect

So, we've identified inflation as the problem, but now let's delve
into why it's happening. Starting with a straightforward question
like, "What do you think has caused inflation over the past two
years?" may lead the conversation in different directions. However,
it's likely that you'll encounter two main types of answers:

a) Supply chain disruptions due to factors like wars or the pandemic.

b) Price gouging by corporations.

The first type of answer relates to a supply shock. While such shocks
are relatively common in our globalised economy, they don't fully
explain the consistent month-on-month price increases we've witnessed
over the past 24 months. Supply shocks essentially result from a
temporary mismatch between supply and demand. When supply chains are
severely affected, as they were during the war and pandemic,
especially in critical areas like grain, oil, and natural gas, the
interconnected global economy feels the strain. Short-term price
inflation due to unforeseen natural events is inevitable and is akin
to speed bumps on the road of economic progress.

What's important to note is that the free market is best suited to
address these issues. As Saifedean Amous explains in "The bitcoin
Standard," an increase in the price of a particular good incentivizes
producers to increase production, thereby lowering prices back to
equilibrium. The key point to emphasize here is that the war in
Ukraine, for example, isn't the primary reason why the three-bedroom
home your parents bought for $150,000 in 1980 is now comfortably
valued at over $1.5 million.

The discussion regarding option B is relatively straightforward.
During my time as an accountant, I experienced a disruption one morning when the workers'
union gathered outside our building, demanding better pay. While not
an unfair or novel protest topic, I went downstairs to listen to the
local union representative. He claimed, "The inflation we've felt
over the past year is caused by greedy companies and corporate fat
cats price-gouging regular Australians." Additionally, I've come
across claims in newspaper articles and the general news suggesting
that the increase in corporate profits has contributed to 30-40% of
the inflation over the last year.

In my view, responding to this argument requires little more than a
moment's reflection. Were these corporations equally greedy in 2019?
Why didn't we see double-digit inflation and widespread price-gouging
four years ago? If corporations exist primarily to maximize profits,
why is this happening now? These questions essentially answer
themselves and strongly suggest that inflation is not primarily caused
by big businesses but is rather leveraged by them.

While it's true that major corporations may use inflation as an
excuse to raise prices to the detriment of everyone else, this
argument misses the point. Essentially, it concedes that the source of
inflation lies further upstream.

From this point, we're on our way. Remember, we're not delving too
deeply just yet. Based on my personal experiences, I've found myself
stuck by trying to condense everything I've learned over two years
into such a short amount of time. The result is like a high-powered
four-wheel drive spinning its tires in the mud - too much power, not enough
traction. We'll omit discussions about the extensive monetary history
of central banks, the emergence of the petrodollar after Bretton
Woods, the distinctions between bank lending inflation and fiscal
inflation, as well as the impending debt spiral and the looming credit
crisis for another occasion. For now, we're simply posing a few
straightforward questions to set this sizable locomotive in motion.
Eventually, inertia will take care of the rest.

Once we've established that we agree with the normie that inflation
is immoral, we should take a step further and emphasize that it stems
from our flawed monetary system. In our current system, money is
essentially credit, and credit is money. This situation arises from
how our money is created or "mined." To put it simply, instead of
new tokens or monetary units being generated by a natural process,
like the laws of chemistry, our money is brought into existence
through debt issuance from banks and centrally planned money creation.

Each individual orange piler can delve into this topic in as much
detail as needed, but in simpler terms, credit expansion increases the
overall money supply, thereby diluting the value of each individual
unit. This phenomenon is what we call monetary inflation and explains
the consistent year-over-year price increases we've grown accustomed
to seeing.

Returning to the earlier discussion about the morality of the orange
pill, it's crucial to point out that excessive government spending
and credit creation only worsen the problem they claim to solve.
There's a circular logic at play here, similar to wealth creation.
The federal government and central banks create inflation through poor
monetary policies and fiscal deficit spending, which, in turn, fuels
inflation. Inflation disproportionately affects lower-income
individuals.

Governments then respond with more spending, causing further
inflation. Even from the perspective of Keynesian economics, this
spending won't have a 1:1 impact on aggregate demand, thus increasing
inflation. Therefore, it's like a snake eating its own tail: more
spending drives up inflation, leaving poorer people further behind,
which necessitates more spending. This is how governments tend to
expand.

Another point I'd like the reader to explore with their normie is to
challenge the necessity of inflation. In my university studies, I was
taught that the target inflation rate is set at 2-3%, considered a
'Goldilocks' scenario. However, a glaring question arises: why? Why
does an economy require a consistent 2% inflation rate? Why not 4% or
5%? The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) sets the inflation target
between 2-3% with the goal of "achieving price stability, full
employment, and prosperity for the Australian people." This answer
strikes me as absurd, and I prefer to break down the response into
three subparts.

Firstly, if stability means staying the same, wouldn't a better
target rate be 0%? After all, that's the only way prices would
genuinely remain stable, right? Imagine how much simpler and less
stressful daily life would be if you could guarantee that prices for
supermarket goods, insurance, or overseas travel would remain constant
year after year. Furthermore, you wouldn't need to become an
investment expert just to preserve the money you've already earned,
because no bank would offer a savings rate higher than inflation. If
it's my money, why can't I retain its value?

Secondly, the answer to the aforementioned question is that without
inflation, our economy would implode. This is not an exaggeration.
Since our economy is based on credit to fund a large majority of
transactions, central bankers have no choice but to be married to
inflation. To illustrate a fundamental debt concept, consider this: I
borrow $100 from you today and agree to repay you in a year's time.
Since I repay you in nominal terms, like all debt contracts, with a
10% inflation rate, the $100 I borrowed from you a year ago is
effectively worth $90 when I make the payment. As you can see, this
situation benefits the borrower at the expense of the lender and forms
a crucial part of why debt is so attractive in our modern economy.

Now, let's switch gears and introduce 10% deflation. That same $100
we borrowed today would be worth $110 when we repay it. This poses a
problem for the borrower, who would incur an additional cost to
service the debt. If we extrapolate this logic to the $33 trillion of
publicly funded debt that the US government owes, we can understand
why central economies are averse to deflation. It would be
catastrophic. From this scenario, we can conclude that deflation is
considered detrimental only in the context of credit-based economies,
where it could have disastrous consequences. In contrast, in a society
that not credit based, having items naturally become cheaper over time
aligns with over 50,000 years of human development. This should be
viewed as a blessing and aligns with the process of modernizing
economies.

I'm not sure if the Chairman of the Federal Reserve has the easiest
or hardest job in the world.

Instead of debating this, I would liken their role to attempting to
fit a square peg into a round hole. Runaway debt leads to credit
bubbles, asset bubbles, and inflation, as we've discussed, and these
issues have severe and harmful consequences, particularly for the
lower and middle class. So, you'd think Jerome Powell has been
equipped with the best tools imaginable to tackle these challenges,
right? Wrong. He primarily relies on two tools:

a) Creating money out of thin air or removing it to directly impact the money supply
(Quantitative Easing or Tightening), and

b) Adjusting borrowing costs to indirectly influence the money supply through interest rate
changes.

Both of these tools lack the precision required for the task
at hand and are assessed only on a monthly basis (quarterly in
Australia). He is unable to intervene effectively when runaway
inflation is caused by government deficit spending and his policies
cannot be voted on in the House or Senate. This is the same for all
central banks.

To further emphasize this point, consider how distant these
policymakers are from the indicators they use. The heads of central
banks confidently claim that they closely monitor lagging indicators
like unemployment, business loan delinquencies, and consumer spending
to determine if their recent rate adjustments are effective. Let's
put this in simpler terms for our target audience: Did enough people
lose their jobs? Did enough businesses go bankrupt? Did enough
families spend so much on their mortgages this month that they can\'t
afford anything else to justify the Chairman's decision? How is this
not seen as morally questionable? Each lever they pull has the
potential (and often does) to devastate someone's life, particularly
impacting those with very little, who spend a larger portion of their
income each year and are more vulnerable to job losses.

## Identifying the characteristics of the solution

The distinction between pessimism and optimism lies in the presence of
a solution. It can be challenging not to feel somewhat disheartened
when we chart the trajectories of economic trends and contemplate
their implications for future generations. However, it's crucial to
connect the issues we've identified with the number one solution:
bitcoin. To facilitate understanding, I propose breaking down this
next step into two parts. To make the explanation easier i suggest
breaking this next step into two parts, and since we know that credit
is sub optimal money, we need to introduce a hypothetical supermoney.

To possess a currency immune to inflation, it mustn\'t be subject to
control by governments or centralised entities. Instead, it should be
governed by a decentralised network, with the currency\'s rules openly
available to all. The aspect of control is paramount here; no single
individual can be entrusted with dictating how the money operates.

Our supermoney should thus exhibit characteristics akin to a
commodity-based currency. While we could delve into an extensive
history of money, for the purposes of this paper, we\'ll briefly
traverse this history, highlighting key points. As technology
advanced, so did trade. In an earlier era, if I had something you
desired, we would only trade if you possessed something I wanted in
return. This method works within small groups, but it inherently
contains friction. This friction is eased by money, which carries an
attached value. Various forms of money have emerged throughout
history, but the ones that tend to prevail in any society exhibit
these characteristics: divisibility, portability, durability,
fungibility, verifiability, scarcity, and utility.

To underscore these characteristics, we should discuss their
suitability. Although we\'ve briefly touched on each of them
throughout our explanations, to effectively convey the idea of an
"orange pill," we must emphasize that for a currency to succeed, it
must exhibit suitability across time, space, and scale.

### Salability across time

Our supermoney needs to be a good store of value. If we think about a
car or computer, they lose value over time as we use them and they
become old and obsolete. The depreciation of money is quite different,
a dollar minted in the year 2000 hasn't changed in its qualities as
it's still ubiquitous however we need more of them to buy the same
object. This means that every individual unit of a dollar is
depreciating and is seen to have a low sailibility across time. For a
currency to be salable in this regard it must have a low stock to flow
ratio. The only way to guarantee a low stock to flow ratio is if the
money physically cannot be issued or controlled by any given group of
people. Gold rose to prominance over the 15th to 18th centuries as
commodity money as it beat out all other types of precious metals due
to its inherent properties and low stock to flow ratio. It didn't
matter how good the mining technology got the increase in gold around
the world was consistently between 2-3% for over 150 years. Therefore,
for our supercurrency to be salable across time it needs to durable,
fungable and scarce.

### Salability Across Space

Salability across space refers to a currency\'s capacity to be
effortlessly transported and accepted across vast distances. For money
to be salable across space, it must be highly liquid, capable of
changing hands with minimal friction. This means that it should
facilitate the instantaneous transfer of wealth across borders to
fulfill one side of a transaction. In my view, this is precisely what
led to the decline of gold as a currency. As the world became
increasingly globalized and trade accelerated, gold couldn\'t keep
pace with paper money. Consequently, our proposed super currency must
have the ability to swiftly traverse seas and borders.

It would also be advantageous if this new supercurrency could address
foreign exchange (FX) issues. Currently, if I want a product from
overseas, I have to send money abroad to acquire it. Even in our
current system, this poses challenges. For instance, suppose the item
I desire is in Germany while I reside in Australia. In such a
scenario, I must convert my Australian Dollars (AUD) into Euros (EUR),
likely through an intermediate step involving USD. Notably, I was
taken aback by the cost when I last engaged in such a transaction.
While I knew the exchange rate was around $0.70 when I visited France
to see my sister, it had dropped to below $0.55, representing a 13%
decrease. The reasons behind this can be complex but essentially boil
down to disparities in interest rate changes between the EU and
Australia as both economies grapple with inflation. Given that the EU
offers higher interest rates, more individuals are inclined to invest
in the EUR compared to a year ago, driving up the Euro's price while\
simultaneously reducing demand for the AUD.

For normies, I would pose the question: wouldn't it be more
convenient if Australia, Europe, and indeed the entire world adopted a
single currency? How beneficial would this be for developing nations
if they could simply trade using USD? However, one should consider
that relying on a single currency like the USD for daily transactions
would render us increasingly subject to Federal Reserve policy
decisions that might not align with our best interests. Therefore,
while our supercurrency should be free from control by any single
group or organization, it should also be borderless.

### Salability Across Scale

Our new supermoney must also scale efficiently. It should function as
a unit of account that can be added, subtracted, multiplied, and
divided with ease and precision. This is an area where commodity money
can encounter difficulties. Think back to the days when tobacco and
shells served as money; how did one determine the value of half a
shell? Did half a shell equate precisely to half the value of a full
one? And what about variations in tobacco quality? These are the
questions our new super currency must address, and it's an area where
fiat money has an advantage. Our supercurrency will be highly
divisible, eliminating friction caused by incorrect amounts and
thereby enhancing its utility as a currency.

### Linking these characteristics to bitcoin

We have now recognised that the current monetary system relies on
credit and is not only inherently flawed but also destined to fail
mathematically. We've also outlined the characteristics of an ideal
hypothetical money. This is where we draw the connection to bitcoin.
In this part of the discussion, it's beneficial to view bitcoin as a
kind of 'super gold,' possessing all the desirable qualities of
money without the associated drawbacks. To bridge this understanding,
let's explore bitcoin's engineering, ensuring we provide an
introduction that doesn't delve too deeply into the technical aspects
but still conveys the authenticity of our argument.

To establish a foundation for understanding bitcoin\'s engineering,
it's advisable to define key terms.

**Open Source** - the code which all bitcoin nodes run on, the code
for bitcoin can be viewed by anyone in it's enterity. If there is any
hidden 'bug' or line of code which people don't agree with the network
will reject it.

**Nodes** - Nodes are individual computers or devices that participate
in the bitcoin network by storing and verifying transaction data,
helping to maintain the network\'s security and integrity.

**Blockchain** - Blockchain is the underlying technology of bitcoin,
consisting of a decentralised and immutable ledger that records all
bitcoin transactions in chronological order, forming a chain of
blocks, each containing a batch of transactions.

**Proof of Work** - A piece of data that requires significant
computation to find. In bitcoin, miners must find a numeric solution
to the SHA256 algorithm that meets a network-wide target, the
difficulty target.

### How bitcoin Achieves Salability Across Time

The key beauty of bitcoin lies in its fixed supply - there will only
ever be 21,000,000 bitcoins. We previously established that for a
currency to be both equitable and resilient to price fluctuations, a
fixed supply is essential, and bitcoin delivers exactly that.
Additionally, we emphasized the importance of a high stock-to-flow
ratio, and bitcoin excels here with a ratio of 19 million divided by
32 thousand, resulting in a calculation of around 58, and this figure
can mathematically only go up.

From an engineering perspective, the open-source nature of bitcoin is
crucial. bitcoin's source code is accessible to anyone with a
computer and an internet connection, and it's approved by all network
nodes. It's important to unpack the concept of open source and nodes
to help your audience grasp this aspect.

### How bitcoin Achieves Salability Across Space

bitcoin, being an adaptive technology, allows for transactions between
any two individuals across the globe. With functional layer-two
technology like the Lightning Network, it can even operate without an
internet connection. This means there are no foreign exchange (FX)
variations and minimal frictions when sending money. While we do pay a
transaction fee to miners for including our transaction on the
blockchain, it's analogous to the fees incurred with Visa or
Mastercard transactions.

In our quest to Orange Pill, it's essential to be open to the idea
that bitcoin might not function as a primary layer but rather serve as
the foundational currency upon which secondary fiat layers are
constructed. Regardless of how you present this to your audience,
it's important to highlight that international settlements become
significantly more straightforward and cost-effective when using
bitcoin instead of traditional FX trading. As a side note, it's worth
mentioning that everything is currently priced in USD, so we would
exchange USD for BTC in this context.

### How bitcoin acheives salability across scale

bitcoin's ability to achieve salability across space is a testament
to its revolutionary design and the power of decentralised networks.
Unlike traditional currencies that rely on intermediaries like banks
and payment processors for cross-border transactions, bitcoin operates
on a global scale without the need for such middlemen. This inherent
decentralisation allows individuals worldwide to engage in peer-to-peer transactions, bridging
geographical gaps effortlessly. What sets bitcoin apart is its
lightning-fast transaction speeds and minimal transaction fees, making
it the go-to option for cross-border payments. With bitcoin,
geographical borders become virtually irrelevant as it enables secure
and instantaneous value transfer across the world.

Furthermore, bitcoin's borderless nature makes it a driving force
behind the future of international commerce and financial inclusion. It serves as a bridge
between traditional fiat currencies, simplifying international
settlements and reducing the complexities associated with foreign
exchange trading. As a global standard, bitcoin is increasingly used
to denominate values and facilitate cross-border trade. This
transformation in how we perceive and conduct cross-border
transactions not only enhances the efficiency of global finance but
also empowers individuals in regions with limited access to
traditional banking systems, promoting financial inclusivity on a
global scale. In essence, bitcoin's salability across space redefines
the landscape of international finance and empowers individuals
worldwide.

## Answering the common critics

I am fully aware that the outline to orange pill may not fully take
the shape of what i have laid out above. Thus in preparation for this,
i have written our short reponses to potential push backs, arguments
or questions that you would likely receive.

### *"Bitcoin Has No Intrinsic Value"*

The argument that bitcoin lacks intrinsic value is commonly raised by
skeptics, including those who may not be well-versed in the subject
and those who prefer alternative assets like gold. To counter this
point, it\'s essential to recognise that value is fundamentally
subjective. While some argue for an objective value based on
quantifiable factors, such as the labor required for production, the
Austrian perspective highlights the subjectivity of value, tied
closely to individuals' preferences and needs. In the case of bitcoin, its value
is rooted in what it represents: a viable alternative to the existing financial system. It
stands as a form of money impervious to inflation and beyond the
control of central authorities. The distinction between bitcoin as a
store of value and a medium of exchange should not be perceived as a
flaw, as individuals will always seek avenues for consumption and
investment.

### *"Bitcoin Is Too Volatile to Be Money"*

The assertion that bitcoin could never function as a global currency
due to its perceived volatility rests on a logical fallacy. Volatility
is a measure of the rate of change in the price of any asset or
currency. When discussing bitcoin's volatility, it's crucial to
consider the broader trend. Over the years, bitcoin's volatility has
consistently decreased as adoption has expanded. This means that it
now requires a more substantial influx of capital to trigger
significant price fluctuations, resulting in greater price stability.
While some criticise bitcoin's price swings, it\'s worth noting that
owning an asset with occasional fluctuations may be preferable to
holding one with a consistently diminishing value.

### *"Bitcoin Is a Ponzi Scheme"*

The accusation that bitcoin is akin to a Ponzi scheme is often tossed
around when people conflate bitcoin with the broader cryptocurrency
market. Critics frequently point to issues on cryptocurrency exchanges
like FTX or Binance as evidence of the entire crypto space being
fraudulent. It's essential to distinguish bitcoin from other
cryptocurrencies in this context. bitcoin is a completely
decentralised open-source protocol with a proven track record of
security through verified proof of work. Unlike many other
cryptocurrencies, it fully embodies these three critical attributes.
As such, bitcoin stands as a distinct entity, closer to the ideals of
decentralisation and security, in contrast to other cryptocurrencies
that may not share these qualities. For many proponents of bitcoin,
other cryptocurrencies often hold little relevance.

### *"Bitcoin will never be a better asset than housing"*

In the context of people saving money (in fiat) for a house deposit
compared to those saving to acquire bitcoins, the argument often
revolves around the underlying beliefs. When individuals advocate for
real estate over bitcoin, it seems that certain core convictions guide
their preferences. They may not consciously consider that real estate,
since the 1970s, inherently carries a monetary premium. Consequently,
they view real estate not solely as an investment opportunity but as a
primary place of residence, with potential for future profit upon
sale. Many individuals invest their entire equity in their homes (sometimes with
150% debt) due to the common belief that \'property values always
appreciate,' without delving into the reasons behind this trend.
It's crucial to remember that the poor monetary management by central
banks compels people to seek stores of value for their money. In light
of this, why not allocate this monetary premium into the currency
itself?

In conclusion, I'd like to point out that the journey of adopting the
orange pill may not always be easy, and I'm asserting that this
isn't necessarily the definitive argument on how to do it. To be
candid, this is the first paper I've ever written outside of school
and university settings. I embarked on this endeavor not only to prove
to myself that I can write but also to develop and explore ideas to
their logical conclusions, to test if they can stand on their own
merits.

We can all make educated guesses about where bitcoin's price is
headed, but in reality, who truly knows? Tomorrow, it may surge to
$60k or plummet to zero. Nonetheless, I remain appreciative of the
valuable lessons I've learned on this journey. These lessons
encompass concepts like reducing time preference, maintaining
consistent effort, embracing a diet of unprocessed foods, recognizing
the importance of family and friends, and understanding the perils of
excessive alcohol consumption. These are lessons that I've gathered
during my journey, and I intend to carry them forward and share them
with others indefinitely.

I hope that this paper can lead to opportunities, but ultimately,
bitcoin has enabled me to find my center and become a better person,
just as I hope it does for you.

Stay Healthy and Stack sats

Colin Gifford

September 2023

## References

### Books

Amous, S. (2017). **The Bitcoin Standard.** John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
Hoboken, New Jersey 

Andreas M. Antonopoulos. (2014). **Mastering bitcoin: Unlocking Digital Cryptocurrencies**.

### Websites:

Alden, L. (2023). "Lyn Alden Investment Strategy." [Website](https://www.lynalden.com/). 

WTF Happened in 1971?. (n.d.). [Website](https://wtfhappenedin1971.com/)

Title of Dataset: **Share of Total Net Worth Held by the Top 1% (99th
to 100th Wealth Percentiles**
Source: Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED)
[Website](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/WFRBST01134)
Accessed Date: 01/09/2023
